Now that we checked the data and we made sure we don't get too much, we can extract it.
So here, I want to extract a categorical section of my data.
So in my data views which is the data we got, I'll access the first element because remember, we only
get one. If you would have a chart or a visual with more, you would have to create some loop to loop through
all possible datasets
and there, I can access categorical because remember, that's what we're mapping it to per our definition
here.
So that holds the data and it is a categorical data, that is what we're saying here basically,
I'm then interested in the category section of our data,
so on categorical, I can access the categories of the first dataset
and I'm interested in the value,
so on categorical, I could also access values for the first dataset here.
So that is what I am extracting here, the categories and the values so to say or a category and value
object array, with that extracted,
I want to create my data points,
this will be an empty array but I'll soon create a loop where we fill this array
and I then want to create my maximum data and that is what I'll later store in my data info there.
So the maximum number will simply be of type number, I won't initialize it yet.
Let's now create a for loop where I start with an index of 0, where I also will define a length variable
and this should be the maximum of either my categories or values.
So here I will call math.max, a built-in Javascript function and this needs a list of items or of
numbers I want to compare. Here
I want to compare my category values and that can be a bit strange but for my categories, the name
of the categories are simply stored in a property named values
and that's just something you should keep in mind.
And here of course I'm interested in the length or the other value I want to check is my data
value,
here the values and there, the length.
So these are two arrays of categories and values and whatever a bigger one is will define the length
variable I'm defining here.
So I will loop as long as i is smaller than length, so that I go through all these data pieces and
then I will increment i on each iteration.
So inside of this loop, we now want to extract the data and store it.
So what I will now do is I will access my data points here and I will call push and push a new object on
it, on this array of data points. Each new object should have a category and that will just be my category
values
and now at the index i, which is why I'm looping through it and I need to turn this into a string because
Typescript doesn't know that this is one, I can do this with lower than, greater than string thing in front
of it.
The second thing I want to add this object is the value,
so this is the same structure as in a static data before now filled dynamically with the user data.
The value here, that should access my data value, there the values array, also at index i, the current index
of this iteration here and that is all.
Now with that, I'm extracting the two data pieces I'm interested in outside of this for loop,
so after we are done, after we've filled this array, I will implement dataMax
and here I can access data value and this is provided by Power BI, there
I have a maxLocal property.
So Power BI is calculating the maximum for me,
I need to cast this to a number though because Typescript doesn't know that maxLocal gives us a number.
So with that, we also set dataMax, finally what I can do is I can return an object here and this object
should have my data points which I'll assign my data points variable here.
It should have my dataMax and that is the dataMax variable here.
So that is what I'm returning in the visual transform function,
now we want to use that function in the update method to actually use that data.